Adult (American). Sparrow-sized swallow with broad shoulders that taper to long, pointed wings. Adult males have a steely blue back, wings, and tail, and tawny underparts. The throat and forehead is rusty. 
Adult (White-bellied). European birds have a whitish belly and a thick blue band across the chest. 
Adult. Upperparts are usually steely blue, but color changes with angle of light. Note long wings. At some times of year, some individuals lack the long tail streamers.
Adult (American). Slender-bodied with a long, deeply forked tail. From below, the underparts vary from pale cinnamon or tawny to bright cinnamon. 
Adult (American). Flies with fluid wingbeats making quick turns and dives; rarely glides. Tail is long and deeply forked with a white band across it. 
Adults (American). Both males and females help build the nest, using pellets of mud combined with dry grasses. 
Juvenile (American). Juveniles are dark above and pale cinnamon below with rich rusty throat and forehead. Their tail is also shorter without the deep fork. 
Juvenile (White-bellied). Juveniles in Europe have a white belly and tawny throat. The tail is also shorter without the deep fork.
Adults (American). Often forages in flocks, fairly low to the ground. Flight is very light and agile, with quick turns and little gliding.
Adult (American). Adults are brightly marked in deep blue, rusty, and cinnamon. Note long forked tail. 
Adult (American). Long and slender with a deeply forked tail. The color of the underparts varies from buffy to rich cinnamon with the females typically having the paler underparts. 
Juveniles. Nests are made of mud and grass and usually placed under eaves, barn rafter, bridges, and culverts.
Adult (American). Collects mud in bill to build a mud and grass nest—often tucked under the eaves of barns and stables, on structures near playing fields, or under bridges.
Flock. Often seen in flocks in open habitats from fields, parks, and roadway edges to marshes, meadows, ponds, and coastal waters. 
