Breeding adult (Atlantic). Large and stocky seabird with a long neck and giant bill. Breeding adults have a dark neck and a pale yellow head. Birds from the Atlantic Coast have brown skin on their throat pouch. 
Breeding adult (Pacific). Heavy bodied seabird with a giant bill. During the breeding season their heads have a light golden wash. Breeding adults along the Pacific Coast have red skin on their throat pouch.
Adults (Atlantic). Typically forages for schooling fish by diving head-first into shallow waters of coastal estuaries or oceans. Occasionally forages from the water's surface when the water is too murky or shallow for diving.
Juvenile. Juveniles look similar to adults, but are brown above with a brown neck and grayish bill. 
Juvenile. Does not carry food in its pouch; instead it scoops up fish and releases the water before swallowing them whole. 
Breeding adult with juveniles (Pacific) and Western Gull. Parents begin feed nestlings a few hours after hatching until young are capable of flight at around 11–12 weeks old. After the young leave the nest, parents rarely continue feeding them. 
Breeding adult (Pacific). Graceful flier often seen flying low over the waves, gathering lift as the waves break. 
Juvenile. Scoops fish out of the water using expandable throat pouch. Before swallowing the fish, they drain the water out of the pouch. 
Adults (Atlantic). Brown Pelicans regularly form large groups year-round. They often preen or loaf on sand bars or open beaches in groups.
Nonbreeding adult. Often rests with its head on its shoulder. Nonbreeding birds have a slight yellow wash on their head and a white neck.
Habitat. Plunges head first into water, scooping up fish with its expandable throat pouch. 
Adults (Atlantic). Often flies just above water's surface in small flocks. While in flight, predominant gliding is interspersed with strong, steady wingbeats.
Habitat. Found year-round in estuaries and coastal marine habitats, often in flocks.
Habitat. Common coastal bird often seen standing on rocks or pilings near shore. 
