Breeding adult. Medium-sized tern with deeply forked tail. Breeding adults have a gray belly, full black cap, and reddish bill. The upper side of the outer primaries is dark gray, creating a dark wingtip.
Breeding adult. Medium-sized tern with a slender, straight bill. Tail is about the same length as the folded wings. Breeding adults usually have a grayish chest and bright red, black-tipped bill and red legs.
Adult and juveniles. Breeding adults have a neat black cap and red bill with black tip. In this image, note the long crossed wingtips (above) about the same length as the forked tail (below). Nests in the open on beaches.
Nonbreeding adult. Nonbreeding adults lose the front portion of their black cap, showing a white forehead and black hindcrown. Legs and bill turn blackish as winter progresses. Note tail does not extend beyond wingtips at rest.
Immature. Immatures and nonbreeding adults have a distinctive black bar on the leading edge of the wing, known as a carpal bar. Tail does not extend beyond wingtips.
Juvenile. Juveniles have a faint brownish wash to the back and a partial black cap that extends to the crown. They also have a dark leading edge to the wing, or carpal bar.
Breeding adult. Medium-sized tern with deeply forked tail. Outer primaries form a dark wedge on the upper side of the wingtips. Wings are slender, swept back, and narrow at the base.
Breeding adult. Medium-sized tern with long, slender wings and deeply forked tail. Breeding adults have a gray wash on the breast and red bill and legs.
Nonbreeding adult. Flies with wingtips swept back with rowing wingbeats. Nonbreeding adults have a white forehead and black on the crown and behind the eye, with blackish bill. Note the black wedge on the upper side of the wingtips. 
Breeding adult. Breeding adults have gray wash on underparts that can be quite dark. Note black-tipped red bill and red legs. Tail does not extend past wingtips.
Habitat. Occurs along shorelines, barrier islands, and estuaries, as well as on large inland lakes. In coastal areas, typically less numerous in brackish areas than along the ocean shore.
