Adult male. Small duck with slender bill and flamboyant oversized head. Hood (crest) can be raised as shown or lowered, changing the shape of the head and the white head patch.
Nonbreeding male. Small, brownish duck with fairly long, straight, slender bill. Ragged crest is cinnamon brown, warmer than the rest of the body.
Adult males and female with Canvasback. Courtship typically occurs in groups with several males and a few females. Males raise their crest, pump their head, flap their wings, and give a froglike croak.
Adult male. Small duck with straight, slender bill and obvious crest, even when lowered. White chest with black line extending down from shoulder.
Female. Small, brownish duck with slender, straight bill. Movable crest can give head varied shapes; it's usually warmer brown than the rest of the bird, especially toward the tip.
Female with juveniles. Hooded Merganser clutch size ranges from 5–13 eggs. Ducklings need little parental care—they can dive and collect their own food within hours of hatching. 
Male and female. Male's crest when lowered lies against the back of the neck, the white patch minimized to a stripe behind the eye.
Adult male. Flamboyant small duck with oversized head when crest is extended. White chest/sides are crossed by one black stripe and bordered by a second; flanks are chestnut.
Adult male. A slender, serrated bill helps Hooded Mergansers capture aquatic insects, fish, and crayfish. Prey is usually swallowed whole. 
Female. Small brownish duck with warm cinnamon crest and gray-brown body. Long tail is not always visible.
Immature male with Red-breasted Merganser. Smaller than other mergansers (compare to Red-breasted Merganser at right).
Adult males. Hooded Mergansers preen while swimming or standing on land. 
Female. Nests in holes in trees and in nest boxes.
Adult male. May form small flocks; males perform several types of displays that emphasize the black-and-white crest, especially when females are present.
Female with juveniles. Small brownish duck with straight, slender bill and warm brown crest. In summer may be seen with many ducklings in tow.
