Adult (borealis). Large with a red tail. Mostly pale below, with a darker belly band, wing tips, and edges of the flight feathers. Head brown wth a white throat.
Adult light morph (calurus/alascensis). The red tail is more obvious when viewed from above. Otherwise all dark brown with light barring in the flight feathers.
Adult. When they detect prey on the ground, they glide or flap-and-glide downward, pushing their legs forward when nearing the prey and impaling it with their talons.
Adult light morph (albieticola). Large with a red tail. Mostly pale below, with a heavy darker belly band. Dark wing tips and edges to flight feathers contrast with paler wings.
Adult dark morph (Harlan's). Chocolatey-brown below, with lightly barred whitish flight feathers, dark wing tips and edges to the flight feathers, and a mostly whitish tail with a dark tip.
Adult. Soars with wings held in a shallow V and "fingers" spread. Stoops to the ground by tucking its wings into its body. 
Adult light morph (Harlan's). Mostly pale below with a heavy dark belly band, dark wing tips and edges to the flight feathers, and dark tips to a white tail.
Adult dark morph (calurus/alascensis). Some dark morphs are strongly reddish-brown below, especially on the chest.
Adult. Often perches motionless in trees along roadsides or slowly scans for prey from its perch. 
Adult (costaricensis). Birds in Costa Rica and Panama have rufous bellies and wing linings, pale flight feathers contrasting with dark wingtips and flight feather edges, and chocolatey-brown head and shoulders.
Juvenile light morph (calurus/alascensis). Heavily streaked below, with bold barring on the wings, dark wingtips, and a lightly barred pale tail.
Adult. When hunting, often hangs in the air scanning for prey below; a behavior known as kiting. 
Juvenile dark morph (calurus/alascensis). Very heavily streaked below, with darkly checkered wing linings, boldly barred wings with dark wingtips, and a finely barred brown and white tail.
Juvenile dark morph (Harlan's). Very heavily streaked below, with darkly checkered wing linings, boldly barred wings with barred wingtips, and a finely barred brown and white tail.
Juvenile (Krider's). Very pale, almost white head. Brown above mixed with white feathering, and finely barred wings and tail.
Adult (borealis). Pale below with light reddish-brown streaking on the chest and a bold brown belly band. Head brown with some darker markings. Red tail often not visible on perched birds.
Juvenile (borealis). Pale below with a broad and bold brown belly band. Head brown mixed with white feathering. Tail barred brown and whitish.
Adult dark morph (calurus/alascensis). Dark chocolatey-brown body and wing linings, with paler flight feathers lightly barred and contrasting with dark wing tips and edges to the flight feathers.
Adult dark morph (calurus/alascensis). Eats a wide variety of prey, including snakes, and occurs in many different habitats.
Adult (borealis). Often mobbed by smaller birds, especially during the nesting season.
Habitat. Occurs in a wide variety of habitats, and often nests on or near cliffs.
