Adult light morph. Distinctively long-winged large hawk with pointed wingtips. Usually soars with wings slightly raised (dihedral). Light morph adults have dark flight feathers creating a broad, dark trailing edge to the wing. Also note the brown upper breast, creating a hooded appearance. 
Adult dark morph. Dark-morph Swainson's Hawks can vary from reddish-brown to uniform dark brown, but they usually have a rufous tone to the underwing coverts and pale undertail coverts, as shown here. 
Adult light morph. Large hawk with long, relatively slender wings with pointed tips. Typically soars with wings slightly raised (known as "dihedral"), often teetering in the wind.
Adult light morph. Large hawk with long wings. Head and upper breast are brown, creating a hooded appearance. Tail has narrow dark bands, with a broader dark band at the tip.
Adult dark morph. Dark morph birds can range from reddish brown to fully dark brown, but usually have some rufous tones to the plumage. Note long wings.
Adult light morph. Large hawk of open country. Note brown head and breast, with unmarked white belly.
Juvenile dark morph. Dark-morph immatures can be quite variable in degree of darkness, but usually have some buffy streaking on the body and show pale undertail coverts.
Juvenile light morph. Light-morph immatures are mottled brown above, with pale edges to the wing coverts, and have variable dark streaking on the breast. The head is often pale from bleaching.
Adult dark morph. Hunts in open country; eats mostly mammals such as ground squirrels on breeding grounds.
Adult light morph. Light-morph adults have grayish heads, a white throat, and a brown upper breast, creating a hooded appearance.
Adult dark morph. Dark-morph adults usually have a two-toned appearance from beneath created by paler underwing coverts and darker flight feathers, similar to but less pronounced than the pattern of light-morph adults. Note the long wings with somewhat pointed tips.
Flock (with Broad-winged Hawks). Forms large flocks on migration, sometimes with other raptors such as Broad-winged Hawk. Note Swainson's Hawk's relatively long, somewhat pointed wings.
Juvenile dark morph. Dark-morph juveniles are variable but usually show buffy streaking on the body and often have pale head from bleaching. Note the distinctive long-winged shape.
Adult dark morph. Dark-morph adults are variable but usually have reddish brown tones to the underwing coverts, dark flight feathers creating a two-toned look to the underwing, and pale undertail coverts.
Juvenile. Young Swainson's Hawks have pale edges to the upperwing coverts creating a scalloped appearance.
Adult light morph. Note the distinctive long-winged shape with pointed wingtips—especially pronounced when the bird is gliding with wingtips swept back, giving an M-shape to the wings.
Juvenile light morph. Often has brown streaks on the chest but may also show brown upper breast and dark flight feathers, like an adult. Juveniles have a narrower, less distinct terminal tail band than adults.
Habitat. Breeds in open country with occasional trees, including grasslands, croplands, pastures, hayfields, and sage flats. 
