Breeding adult. Small, portly sandpiper with black legs and a black slightly drooping bill. Breeding birds have a rusty cap and rusty mottling on the back. 
Nonbreeding adult. Small, rather chunky shorebird. The bill is long and slightly drooping, although bill length and shape is quite variable among individuals and is not diagnostic on its own. Nonbreeding birds have little streaking on the breast. 
Breeding adult. Tiny shorebird; feeds on aquatic invertebrates usually at the water's edge or in shallow standing water. Appears somewhat front-heavy; folded wings are same length as tail.
Juvenile. Juveniles look like nonbreeding adults but have a more scaly-looking back with a whiter face. 
Juvenile. In flight, rusty shoulder bars on juveniles can be seen at close range. As in most other "peep" sandpipers, note black stripe down the center of the tail. 
Nonbreeding adults. Tiny shorebird with whitish face and little streaking on the breast. Often forages by probing into mud and sand at water's edge.
Breeding adult. Small, portly sandpiper with black legs and a black bill. Looks rather large headed compared to similar species. Breeding adults have rusty highlights in the head and shoulders.
Nonbreeding adult. Small shorebird with a short neck and larger head. Nonbreeding birds are grayish above and white below. Often forages with its head even with or above the body. 
Juvenile. Juveniles have crisp scaly markings on the back as a result of their newly grown feathers. They also show a rusty bar on the shoulder at a time when adults are in their brown-and-white nonbreeding plumage.
Nonbreeding adult with Sanderling. Smaller than a Sanderling. Nonbreeding birds have limited streaking on the breast. 
Breeding adult. Breeding birds have a rusty cap and rusty mottling on the back. From a distance its whiter face stands out. 
Flock. Often seen on migration and wintering grounds in large flocks, sometimes with other "peep" species.
Habitat. Breeds in tundra with dwarf vegetation. Migrates and winters along mudflats, beaches, shores of lakes and ponds, and flooded fields.
